# MongoDB and Mongoose

* **Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:**
	 
| SQL  | NoSQL |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| vertically scalable | horizontally scalable  |
| uses SQL ( structured query language )  |  uses UnQL (Unstructured Query Language)  |	 
| have predefined schema  |  have dynamic schema  |	 
| table based  | document based  |	 
 	 
 	 
* **What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?** data that is highly structured and related to each other
* **Give a real world example.** an online store that has a table for customers, a table for products, a table for orders, etc.
* **What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?** data that is not structured and not related to each other
* **Give a real world example.** storing log data and performing real-time analytics. It can efficiently handle structured and unstructured log data generated by applications, servers, or network devices. 
* **Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?** noSQL
* **Which type of database is best for scalability?** It depends. SQL is vertically scalable, which means that you can increase the load on a single server by increasing things like CPU, RAM or SSD. NoSQL is horizontally scalable, which means that you can add more servers easily in your NoSQL database infrastructure to handle a lot of traffic.
* **What does SQL stand for?** Structured Query Language
* **What is a relational database?** a database that has tables that are related to each other
* **What type of structure does a relational database work with?** tables that are related to each other
* **What is a ‘schema’?** a model of how the data is organized
* **What is a NoSQL database?** a database that relies on a collection of documents instead of tables and doesn't have a schema or use SQL
* **How does it work?** NoSQL databases use various data models to organize and store data, such as key-value pairs, document-oriented, or graph-based structures. 
* **What is inside of a MongoDB database?** collections of documents that resemqble JSON objects
* **Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.** mongoDB because it doesn't have a schema and doesn't rely on tables
* **What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?** Limited querying capabilities such as joins and aggregations.